---
title: '2025 Q1 Roadmap'
date: 2025-01-16T00:00:00+00:00
description: 'wasmCloud Development Roadmap for Q1 2025'
sidebar_position: 994
type: 'docs'
---

:::info
This roadmap page is a snapshot of the current state of the project. It is not a guarantee of future direction or features. It is a living document and will change as the project evolves. You can view the most current version of this roadmap on [GitHub Projects](https://github.com/orgs/wasmCloud/projects/7/views/13).
:::

The 2024 Q4 Roadmap was brainstormed and planned in the [15 Jan 2025 community meeting](/community/2025/01/15/community-meeting). Thank you to all who attended, commented, and contributed to making this roadmap community-driven.

## Retrospective

The [2024 Q4 roadmap](/docs/roadmap/2024-q4.md) included many issues that improved the overall experience of developing wasmCloud applications. We called it a "polish quarter" where the primary focus among maintainers and community members was holistic improvement. We made significant progress on the following goals:
- Golang support
- Benchmarking and performance improvements
- Autogenerated documentation
- A `wash dev` focused quickstart

## Goals

We are taking the first quarter of Q1 on with a feeling. This is our most ambitious roadmap yet in terms of features, improvements and documentation. We are focusing on the following goals:
- Expand the list of capability providers for wasmCloud
- Simplify the deployment experience on Kubernetes with well-reasoned defaults and recommendations
- Track WASI P3 development and release features for prototyping as soon as possible
- Formalize APIs and automate documentation generation

Q1 of 2025 has many goals that build upon the polish and release of wasmCloud 1.0 from the previous year. As we settle into CNCF incubating status, our focus is on maturity of APIs and consistent developer experience.

1. **Apply stabilization rigor to our APIs, CloudEvents, capability provider SDKs, and documentation**
1. Track the development of WebAssembly standards in WASI P3, knowledge sharing and prototyping alongside standardization.
1. Utilize the transparency of components to provide a seamless developer experience for building, testing, and deploying applications with wasmCloud.
1. Enable developers to build features without vendor lock-in, platform specific dependencies, or language constraints.

## Features

wasmCloud as a project offers the following top features:

1. Declarative WebAssembly Orchestration
1. Seamless Distributed Networking
1. Vendorless Application Components
1. Completely OTEL Observable
1. Defense-In-Depth Security By Default

## Diagram

This roadmap is unordered as each individual task can be completed indepedently, so no rigid order is necessary. The diagram is also not exhaustive, as there a few smaller tasks that are not included. This roadmap is also available as a [GitHub Project](https://github.com/orgs/wasmCloud/projects/7/views/13) for consistent updating. Compared to previous roadmaps the community only planned this roadmap using the GitHub project.

## Contributing

We welcome all contributors to the wasmCloud project, and we'd love to have help to accomplish our goals. If you're interested in contributing, please see our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/wasmCloud/wasmCloud/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information, and come join us on [Slack](https://slack.wasmcloud.com) to chat with the team and other community members.

We try to mark issues that are good for new contributors with the [**good first issue**](https://github.com/wasmCloud/wasmCloud/contribute) label, so look out for those for well scoped issues that are a good place to start. On this particular roadmap, many of the "Ready for Work" issues in the "Improvement" section are good places to start.

We also host [weekly community meetings](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=c_6cm5hud8evuns4pe5ggu3h9qrs@group.calendar.google.com) that are open to all, where we can discuss aspects of the roadmap.
