---
date: '2025-01-15'
title: 'Meeting Agenda - 2025-01-15'
---

## Agenda

{/* Update before the start of the meeting with planned agenda items */}

- [Q1 Roadmap Planning](https://github.com/wasmCloud/wasmCloud/discussions/3813): your opportunity to influence what comes next in wasmCloud.

{/* truncate */}

## Meeting Notes

{/* Add summary of topics during the meeting. Each Topic should have an H3 heading. A list is usually sufficient for the recap */}

Roadmap discussions for Q1 2025 can be viewed on GitHub at https://github.com/wasmCloud/wasmCloud/discussions/3813 and roadmap items can be viewed at https://github.com/orgs/wasmCloud/projects/7

### Discussion: Roadmap items shouldn’t be closed as stale.
- If a task has a roadmap label, the stalebot will ignore it.
- Also, if a task is attached to a milestone, it won’t be marked as stale.

### Documentation updates for breaking changes 
- We need to hold ourselves to a high bar in communicating breaking changes. 
- We’re leveraging automation for changes to CLIs and can expand this in some further areas. 
- We can also leverage our usage of conventional commits. 

### Roadmap proposals

- Bringing forward item from previous roadmap to document using resources with a custom interface.
- Implementation of wasi-nn via provider. Brooks asks for RFC that goes through thoughts on what this would look like. 
- Autocompletion for `wash app` subcommands. 
    - This is really completion on existing work. We do now allow for interacting with apps according to the source YAML for the deployment.
- Provenance and attestation for wasmCloud core components. 
    - We can start creating sub-issues to tackle the different parts of this individually.
- Build and support a cronjob provider.
- RFC for ingress for minimal footprint deployment. 
- Bundle wasmCloud in wash. 
    - Lachlan: Perhaps there could be two builds. 
    - Brooks proposes spiking to investigate changes to binary size and improvements to DevEx. 
- Simplify default wasmCloud deployment on Kubernetes.
    - Foregrounded NATS requirement can be confusing to some users.
    - Helm chart naming conventions can be confusing to some users as well.
- Correct inconsistent specification of host ids in events and protocols.
- Define CloudEvents in a language-agnostic IDL, codegen structure.
- Standardize what the field name should be for an image reference.

## Recording

{/* Automated - No need to adjust this unless automation fails */}

<YouTube url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1jVV0kPh4wM" />
