---
date: '2025-04-16'
title: 'Meeting Agenda - 2025-04-16'
---

## Agenda

{/* Update before the start of the meeting with planned agenda items */}

- DISCUSSION: Provenance and Attestation research and findings
- DEMO: Embedding NATS in wasmCloud
- DISCUSSION: Next week, Q2 roadmap planning. [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/wasmCloud/wasmCloud/discussions/3977)

{/* truncate */}

## Meeting Notes

{/* Add summary of topics during the meeting. Each Topic should have an H3 heading. A list is usually sufficient for the recap */}

### DISCUSSION: Provenance and Attestation research and findings

* Masoud summarizes his research on provenance and attestation&mdash;you can find a summary of his findings in the [RFC issue on GitHub](https://github.com/wasmCloud/wasmCloud/issues/3975)
* Brooks, Joonas, and Masoud agree that the complexities for our CI pipelines (given our use of a monorepo and multiple languages) mean that implementing provenance and attestation at this time would be a heavy lift and introduce additional complexity without an urgent need for the feature at this time. 
* Brooks proposes taking these learnings and keeping them in mind as we look forward at how we’re going to do CI. 

### DEMO: Embedding NATS in wasmCloud

* Brooks has been investigating bundling wasmCloud in `wash`
* The sticking point is NATS, which is written in Go, whereas wash is written in Rust.
* So, how could we embed NATS and `wash`?
* Brooks shows wash dev running, and he’s not running NATS at all.
* Instead, he has compiled NATS as a Wasm P1 module
* P1 because that’s what big Go can compile to, and need to use big Go at the moment
* Brooks would like to see a couple necessary changes land upstream before implementing, but thinks this is an extremely viable solution for running wash dev and wash up
* Florian: Would we publish two versions of wash, one with embedded NATS and one without?
* Lucas: think at that point one could pass their own --nats-address , and wash doesnt start the wasm one
* Brooks: Could see having a flag to make it optional, but also want to standardize as much as possible. I think it would be good to avoid having multiple different binaries to choose between.

### Next week

Next week we'll do our live roadmapping session for the next quarter!

-

## Recording

{/* Automated - No need to adjust this unless automation fails */}

<YouTube url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ao4711ma8Wo" />
