---
date: '2025-05-07'
title: 'Meeting Agenda - 2025-05-07'
---

## Agenda

{/* Update before the start of the meeting with planned agenda items */}

- DISCUSSION: Update on NATS
- DISCUSSION: Check in on roadmap

{/* truncate */}

## Meeting Notes

{/* Add summary of topics during the meeting. Each Topic should have an H3 heading. A list is usually sufficient for the recap */}

### DISCUSSION: Update on NATS

* The CNCF and Synadia released a [joint statement](https://www.cncf.io/announcements/2025/05/01/cncf-and-synadia-align-on-securing-the-future-of-the-nats-io-project/) affirming that it will remain Apache 2.0 licensed and that the trademark will remain under the CNCF. 
* We continue to advance a transport-agnostic approach with wRPC, so users can take the approach that makes the most sense for their context.

### DISCUSSION: Check in on Q2 2025 roadmap

* We reviewed in-progress and triage tickets on the [Q2 2025 roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/wasmCloud/projects/7)
* In progress: wRPC error docs are ready for review.
* Triage: There are issues with the `secrets-nats-kv` workflow&mdash;this will probably be pretty quick to resolve. Ticket moved to "Ready for work."
* Triage: Host config file. The design is probably best taken by a maintainer, and we'll need to decide on a scope for this work. Brooks will connect with Joonas, who wanted to work on the initial proposal, to check status.

## Recording

{/* Automated - No need to adjust this unless automation fails */}

<YouTube url="https://www.youtube.com/live/dRkCuDWHDPc?si=296adyBlBjlsVSMW" />
